Lilliana Robinson: Again.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: lilliana, has that that really dope apple monitor.
Lilliana Robinson: You don't know about that. It's a good one. Zoom
Neal Sáles-Griffin: got these champagne problems going on over there. Check.
Nelson Mitchell: Nancy.
Lilliana Robinson: Let's see.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Well, in the meantime I'll give some background about what this is. So
Neal Sáles-Griffin: levers is. So you you're gonna get a little bit more Chicago on, but on top of that
Neal Sáles-Griffin: This framework was in, in, created in part or in full by Amos Schwartz. Amos is the former managing director of Texar, the Austin.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and he is a dear friend. He is somebody that when I joined tech Stars I immediately gravitated to flew out to Austin and shadowed his program experience and his participated in multiple screening committees for him.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: he has run 10 tech start programs
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and has written multiple books. So he also wrote, Sell more factor which some people get copies of.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But the framework that Amos came up with it's something based on and derived from his experience running these accelerators. And he basically learned that there's a very clear and important pattern to successful founders who go through tech accelerators.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and they're the ones who've mastered this framework that lilliana is about to teach, so I'll let her take it from here. But, as you can see if you notice at the bottom of this image that our very own Troy Hennikoff.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Texas, Chicago, and D close friend, I told you a lot about Troy teaches financial modeling for us. He also co-authored the book in a few sections, too, and I had the privilege of being one of the reviewers for the book report was published during Covid.
Lilliana Robinson: Awesome now and thank you for the intro. So yeah, that's everything you need to know about the Lovers book, and we're gonna talk about W. 3, which is just the first chapter of 4 chapters and lovers. So those are all the different
Lilliana Robinson: quote unquote leverage that you can pull for your business. They go into revenue financial modeling, and a couple of other things like metrics. But this one is specifically about W. 3. And this workshop is actually more than what it says in the book, because I've taken it and changed it to Meld perfectly with the stage that you're at with jobs to be done.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: Amos never mentions jobs to be done in his book. He's aware of it, but I think that these 2 actually go extremely well hand in hand. This is a separate framework, and it's a separate set of exercises that we're gonna do together. And you'll see how it goes. Really. Well.
Lilliana Robinson: they're not related at all. But if you do both, you're gonna come out with an extremely comprehensive understanding of your customer segment and their desires, and what it exactly it is that you're selling.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And and just to comment briefly, lilliana, the unique contribution that lilliana has made to this. Is that what she just said is that she took the job to be done? Framework.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and she learned that the framework that taught taught by Amos and and a lot of other programs adopted, and she found a way to like kind of connect it to in a meaningful way.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So this is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: II would say, very unique perspective and content that like she kinda
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a
Neal Sáles-Griffin: conjured, so very, very valuable and impressive
Lilliana Robinson: thanks, Neil. So first is understanding that proving your
Lilliana Robinson: w, 3 s. With data and experimentation equals reaching repeatability. So the whole point of this that we're doing
Lilliana Robinson: is to be able to
Lilliana Robinson: reach what we call repeatability. That is ultimately the goal for a company that goes through our accelerators. So what does that mean? That means that you can pull lever A, and you know for sure that B will happen once you get to that point where your business is so predictable. We also call it predictability. Once you get there.
Lilliana Robinson: you'll know that putting X in gets Y out that makes you a fundable business that makes you a sustainable business, and that's how you reach success. So this is one method to getting you to that repeatability.
Lilliana Robinson: What we mean when we say proving your with data and experiments, it means that everything that we're doing today in this workshop together is just a theory. Cause we're just speculating. You're gonna do some exercises. You're gonna speculate on a piece of paper or on your laptops.
Lilliana Robinson: That means nothing until you go out and test it with data and experiments. Try it. See if it's correct. Go back to the drawing board and iterate once you've tested it, and you have data, and you've done experiments, and you've proven that your W. 3 is correct and spot on. That's when you can know for sure.
Lilliana Robinson: So we'll go into like, how to test that with data. A little bit later, Neil.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Yeah, the last thing I'll I'll add here is regarding repeatability. III don't know if I already mentioned this in my background, but I worked at math venture partners with Troy. I actually worked with him. While I was at tech start as a part time venture, partner
Neal Sáles-Griffin: and I met with I don't know. Call it a hundred companies, probably more during that time.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: And when I observe things getting to the partner level where we're making a decision whether to write a 500,000, check, a million dollar check, or you know, whatever
Neal Sáles-Griffin: is.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: we would essentially ask the founder to
Neal Sáles-Griffin: do exactly what's written right here is what experiment
Neal Sáles-Griffin: signal the repeatable like metrics that you have, or the repeatable kind of patterns that you would have to acquire customers.
So all I'm trying to say is. there's a very objective pathway to getting commitments from investors to raise capital. It's a very uncomfortable pathway, because it actually requires you to demonstrate with data
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that you have something that's worth investing in.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But it is the absolute best way to raise capital, because you know
what the value of the company is and what it will become based on those levers.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: There's still assumptions, and there's still some healthy, like theoretical components to it because you don't know how it's actually gonna play out. But you have indicators that you're able to demonstrate
Neal Sáles-Griffin: that like could make the case for you to be at a certain both value and a command, a certain amount of capital from an investor. So this is a more scientific framework than I think a lot of the games that are played in the venture. Capital.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: you know art and practice that, like founders, become masters of and student stuff, we hover far more on the the science than the dark arts of
Neal Sáles-Griffin: kind of manipulating information, so that you can convince these to write. You bid checks. That's not really what we're good at. We're better at actually demonstrating it objectively.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, instead of like storytelling or selling a dream, you have an actual like set of information that you can tell for short. That's why it's important to validate the assumptions that we're making today with real experiments and real iteration and data so that you can foreshore. Say these things.
Lilliana Robinson: So with that being said, we're going to jump into some exercises, a series of exercises where we're going to theorize your W. 1, 2, and 3, and we'll work on it together.
Lilliana Robinson: So as we go through, every single person who is on this call is going to do the exercise, because it's important that everyone from your team is able to articulate what it is your business does, and you might not get it right the first time when you go and test it, you might be completely off. And I have some stories that I'm gonna talk about.
Lilliana Robinson: Another thing for this workshop is that most of my examples are B, twob, so a lot of people have asked for a lot of B to be examples. And this framework lends itself extremely well to both B to C and B to B, whereas maybe at the beginning of jobs to be done, it seems like we tend more B to see this one is
Lilliana Robinson: very easily applied. With very little like mental hoops to jump through. So I have some examples for you later.
Lilliana Robinson: So first, I want you guys to each take a piece of paper or a notes on your computer and write out, who do you believe your customer is, what are they buying, and why are they buying it?
Lilliana Robinson: So I'm going to give you 60 s. Just the first things that come to your head, go ahead and write it down.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, that's the time. So
Lilliana Robinson: you guys can raise your hand or just unmute. Was that too much time, too little or just right.
Mircea Gogoncea( Cicada): It's just right here.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, just right.
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: Just like.
Lilliana Robinson: yeah. Kelman.
Kelvin Alaneme - LocumDoc: yeah, just right.
Lilliana Robinson: So the next thing I want you to write is, how do you know? Think about the data that you have the opinions that you have? And also what you want to know that you don't know. So basically, how can you justify the things that you wrote before?
Lilliana Robinson: Go ahead and take 90 s?
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, that was time. So again, was that too much time, too little or just right.
Ale: I will, with the previous question.
Lilliana Robinson: say it again.
Lilliana Robinson: Would you say I was? I would have reversed the Times with the previous question. Okay, so too much time for this too little time to write down what it is. Does everyone agree?
Lilliana Robinson: Wow, okay. So this ideology might feel tedious, but that's the point. So the point of this is to get into the nitty gritty, like deep down, so that you can better understand your roadmap for the next 13 weeks. And beyond.
Lilliana Robinson: So remembering that this is all a theory, and you're just taking this to test and go validate. So everything you just wrote down is just speculation on our parts, right? So we're gonna break up into groups of 2 companies
Lilliana Robinson: with each company going into the same breakout room. So everyone's gonna have a partner company and what I want to happen. I'm gonna go through what's gonna happen. And then I'm gonna put you in your breakout rooms, and I'll give you prompts via the chat.
Lilliana Robinson: So everyone's gonna go into assigned breakout rooms with another company and the Ceos, if they're present, otherwise another co-founder can do it. The Ceos are, gonna do this exercise, and everyone else can follow along.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: we're going to have the first. CEO explain to the second CEO, their W. 3, that they just wrote down their who, what and what
Lilliana Robinson: the listening company should just write down, what they're hearing, and what questions they have. So they're described. So they should not talk
Lilliana Robinson: the next 90 s. We're gonna let that second company, that second CEO, repeat back what they heard to the first, CEO, and share any questions they have with the first CEO
Lilliana Robinson: the first. CEO shouldn't speak. They should just also absorb what the second company is saying back then we're gonna flip. Now, the second company, the second, CEO, is going to explain to the first founder the first, CEO,
Lilliana Robinson: what their W. 3 is, and the first company will just listen and write it down, and then they'll repeat back what they heard and share questions. So we're gonna do that. So 4 sets of 90 s.
Lilliana Robinson: So I'm gonna go ahead and have Chloe open up the breakout rooms. And you guys will see your company name, and you can go ahead and jump right in.
Lilliana Robinson: and I will give you a prompt in the chat with timing.
Lilliana Robinson: Is everyone able to find their breakout rooms.
Lisa Hennessy (she/her), Travaras: I didn't get one. Yep.
Lilliana Robinson: Chloe, can you start inviting people if you can?
Jeremy Banning: Yeah, you should be able to manually select the one with your company name, but I'll start assigning people.
Jeremy Banning: I thought it was just the Ceos being put into the rooms. No, no, you guys get to go in and do the exercise to just only one person can be able to talk.
Lilliana Robinson: So follow along. I'm gonna start the timer now, so go ahead and jump in.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So, lilliana, how do I select? I'm sorry I'm lost here. Yeah, there should be a breakout. There should be a breakout rooms tool at the bottom. Do you see where it says breakout rooms?
Lilliana Robinson: It'll say your company name.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: Gotcha. Thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, that's everybody.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, 10 days.
Lilliana Robinson: Did you have?
Chloe Lannert: Well.
Lilliana Robinson: there we go.
Chloe Lannert: Which is just us in the AI
Lilliana Robinson:  There's 1 min left for this, first round.
Lilliana Robinson: oh, Maria.
Lilliana Robinson: okay.
Lilliana Robinson: Chloe, can you pause the recording.
Chloe Lannert: Yes.
Lilliana Robinson: Did you think, was there anything that
Lilliana Robinson: you wanna share? Does anybody want to unmute and let us know how that felt?
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): I wanna say something it felt really easy to follow because we were allowed to take notes. So I was able to. I we were almost, you know, I'm a fast Typer, so I could almost type work for what I was hearing. So I'm not sure if that was super productive. But yeah, it was also very well explained. So
Lilliana Robinson: okay, well, we're in person. I normally make people use pen and paper. So it's not as easy to just follow along. But yeah, I totally agree. I usually you can kind of type it down.
Lilliana Robinson: Malcolm.
Rob Nelson: Wow.
Malc - Xsauce: yeah. That was great exercise as well. Had a really good conversation with Dan. And one of my key takeaways is just how I guess it's proximity to the problem. I kind of gonna be from agency perspective and also from a client perspective we just offer. We've really gotten to the nitty gritty around.
Malc - Xsauce: Yeah, how did he know some of the assumptions it was? You could feel it was first hand you could feel like he was living and breathing a problem area. So yeah, it was really good to kinda hear him break that down.
Lilliana Robinson: Oh, wow, so yeah, it sounds like, you guys have some similarities. And you were able to go even more into detail. I'm curious. If anyone and, David, I'll let you go 1 s. I'm curious if anybody found a difficulty, or maybe like a barrier in between explaining the problem. Maybe you are very close to the problem. And you got someone that's not as close to problem. And maybe it was a little bit difficult.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, Marcel, and then, snow. We'll go back to David.
Marisel Polanco: Oh, I don't know if the answer to questions you just asked but we were we would both be to be to see. I found it really interesting that we got matched. And yes, it is answering your question. It it is a challenge when you have, when you are B to B to C, trying to explain who you're selling to cause. It's a 2 way street here. So we we found those similarities. And it was interesting talking to Jeremy.
Lilliana Robinson: Interesting. Okay, snow.
Snow Lee / Runbear: Yeah. II actually read the 1 3 part of the levers yesterday. So I tried to follow the guide. But actually
Snow Lee / Runbear: I because of that, I try to explain what our customers buying instead of what we are selling.
Snow Lee / Runbear: But in the meantime the meanwhile, but it makes the least difficult to understand what our product is. I'm not sure which one is better. Yeah.
Lilliana Robinson: that's interesting. Yeah, we're gonna get into that with W. 2, and then I was telling me at the end, if maybe it still seems unclear.
Lilliana Robinson: David, did you want to go?
David Akinyemi (he/him): Yeah, mine is kind of different. But I was kind of your first question, but it was around.
David Akinyemi (he/him): We kind of had very similar businesses kind of in a way to the point where we spoke to Pardo and Parta was like, I've actually experienced the problem you're trying to solve. And I wish this existed a year ago. Kind of thing. And so
David Akinyemi (he/him): I think because of that, we
David Akinyemi (he/him): almost like knew exactly what the other person was trying to build. Cause is the same space. So interesting, maybe on purpose.
David Akinyemi (he/him): Curious to see what opposite would be like.
Lilliana Robinson: That's really cool. Yeah, I'm curious, too. It's interesting that we kind of randomly did that. So a lot of you ended up with people that understood. That's interesting. Christy.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: Yeah, it was interesting to just pay attention to when you're explaining it like acronyms, right? Or certain phrases that you think you know or is common in your industry. But for the other person your audience. They may not be familiar, so always to be mindful of of that. And then also when I was explaining what you know that the 3 y. The 3 W's.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: I was kind of generalizing it in that.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: I was trying to make it a simple, but then it didn't get to the heart of like, what is the actual thing that we provide to get to that benefit?
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, it's hard, right cause you want them to truly understand what your business is, so you can't dumb it down too much. But when there's not that inherent knowledge in that space it's a little bit difficult. But we'll meet a lot of people that aren't from that space that you still need to explain it to like advisors, investors, etc. So it's definitely hard, Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So one observation is the first question. I didn't know where whether to put the customers like kind of the vision that we have for the customer, which is consumer products versus
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: the first customers, which is where we're targeted targeting to. And and so I decided in the end to to use our first customers the ones that we're doing the gut to be done interviews for. And actually it was nice to see that we have a lot of clarity on on that. Now we we we're try to validate our assumptions
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: with with these interviews. So at least it was nice to see that we have some clarity. We have some clarity we are targeting. And the other observation I had is that when the last question around, how do you know, like the first thing that popped up to my mind was our competitors are are making familiar.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: and so like the fact that there is already a market for it, but we can do it better.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med:  give give me some solid things, but I think I I'm gonna feel much better when I see those 1015 interviews
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: and and and try to learn from that.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. Well, there were so many good nuggets in there. So yes, having competitors in this space already, making money is absolutely a validation. A lot of people think it's the other way around. But we want to see that interest in that market so completely agree there. And also you. I'm so glad you brought up the point. Should I be tackling like my giant vision for the market or the first few customers we're gonna get into that today. But you chose absolutely, correctly, because those first customers are the ones that we're focusing on at the
Lilliana Robinson: moment. It's almost like the big vision doesn't exist at this time. We're all about that first segment. That's really what today is about so 100. Antonio Matthew.
Matthieu Bonnard: Hey? Yeah. So it was very interesting exercise. And to me, kind of eye opening to hear the questions and the way I read it like, if there are questions to clarify whether how, why, and what are
Matthieu Bonnard: it means? We haven't nailed it.
Matthieu Bonnard: And so we need to do that, so that we use this like
Matthieu Bonnard: 30 s to make it like crystal clear on this 3 w's to whoever we're talking to.
Lilliana Robinson: That's exactly right, Mantia and I have a slide for that. If you can't articulate your W. 3 in 3 min. Which of how long we gave each of you, how can you grab someone's attention in much less time?
Lilliana Robinson: So this was a controlled environment. But imagine being an environment like a networking event, or you meet an investor in an elevator. You know the age-old principle of an elevator pitch. You have much less time to grab someone's attention 15 to 20 s. So we need to have you guys locked down, extremely crispy, concise, and clear, able to articulate it in a very fast
Lilliana Robinson: but also potent manner, so that you can grab people's attention and have them extremely understand it in an extremely deep way, in a very short amount of time, so that I know that's exactly what you're getting at, Matthew.
Lilliana Robinson: Pardon.
Pardo Walter: yeah, it was kinda echo what David mentioned earlier, what we were basically within the same umbrella, but different categories of issues that we're trying to solve under that massive umbrella within the vintage space. And there.
Pardo Walter: they detailed it enough. They were articulate enough that it was so succinct, yet detailed enough that I was able to by the end, once they finish to know, like I could have definitely use something like you guys, you know, a year and a half back during all the crazy hectic market craziness. So
Pardo Walter: yeah, that was our experience.
Lilliana Robinson: That's awesome. Okay, kudos to David and his teammate. That's really great to hear. Felicia.
Felipe Acevedo - Goohaus: Yeah. 1 one thing that I noticed in myself it was like, who do, I believe by customers. And it's like retailers. And it's like, Okay, that's fine. But it's very, you know. And many people say like banks that some team here guys say, like Duane say, banks or credit companies, I think we have to narrow that now. Finally, to who in the company, like product managers or category managers or e-commerce
Felipe Acevedo - Goohaus: manager. So whoever, I think that's that. That's the customer finder. You know the the person more than the company.
Lilliana Robinson: exactly, and we'll narrow that down right now. So let's jump into w one. So now we're gonna get into each. So you guys, major hypotheses, let's try and narrow those down, and I'll teach you about each one.
Lilliana Robinson: So first we have
Lilliana Robinson: a side note, which is until you have data. You shouldn't go too far in any one direction. So Amos, in his book, talks about being lost in the middle of nowhere, and if you're lost, if you just get dropped in the middle of the desert. You don't. You're not just gonna pick one direction at random and head there because you have a lot to lose. If that direction is wrong. You're gonna die of thirst. You're not gonna make it so instead, what
Lilliana Robinson: like most people would do is look, start looking for clues, look for sign posts. Try to collect additional information along the way to prove whether or not you're headed in the right direction that way, but you can make your best judgment, and give up, like all the energy you have left into trying to find.
Lilliana Robinson: been a nearby city and refuge. So the same is true here. I really like that story because
Lilliana Robinson: you should picture yourselves as that person when we're making a startup. We're really dropped in a desert like there's no roadmap. You're making it up as you go. I'm sure all of you feel that way, and you don't have the resources to just choose the wrong direction. We wanna make sure that we're making the best guess before we go too far in any one direction. And that's really what the point here is that this is gonna help you better inform what direction to put all your resources behind.
Lilliana Robinson: Another side note is that everyone on your team needs to understand and believe in your. So I got at this at the beginning a little bit. But even though the Ceos were the ones doing the exercise.
Lilliana Robinson: and even though only some of your team members are here in the workshop to day. Once you've gotten your W. 3 down, pat, it's really important that everybody in your company can thoroughly understand and believe in your company's. W. 3.
Lilliana Robinson: The amount of times I've seen someone get a key strategic investor or a very key Mentor Board member
Lilliana Robinson: advisor from a member of their team who is not a leader, who is not maybe even C suite, but because they understood the vision, and we're able to articulate. It has been very plentiful. So I've seen that a lot of times. It's not just always going to be the CEO or the Coo
Lilliana Robinson: getting those key connections. It's really anyone, and as many team members as you have that can better articulate it. That's more people out in the world making these connections for you, and it's less missed opportunities. So make sure that everybody on your team is able to articulate the W. 3 that you decide on
Lilliana Robinson: so that you can grab every opportunity that comes your way.
Lilliana Robinson: So with that, let's go into W. One
Lilliana Robinson: who do, I believe is my customer. So this is your first of the W. 3 s. And then this is your first theory on the direction you want to go into.
Lilliana Robinson: So at full scale, like Antonio was saying, this is your total addressable market. This is your vision for your entire customer segment at full scale. But for now we're gonna start narrow. So this is not your end goal. So if you set your W one is something extremely small, which is what we want. That doesn't mean that you're gonna have a small business. That means that you're capturing that market right now, and we will slowly expand out.
Lilliana Robinson: This should be uncomfortable. So even if your W one segment is point 0 0 1% of the entire market that you eventually want to get, you'll have the absolute confidence that each of those people is meant to be in your targeted audience that you can make a sale with those people.
Lilliana Robinson: So just keep in mind. This is not where you're ending. It's just where you're starting, so that you can get a really deep understanding of all the attributes and circumstances of your ideal customer, and there's no such thing as too narrow.
Lilliana Robinson: My favorite part of this presentation that I like to bring in because I studied this in engineering school is the diffusion of innovation.
Lilliana Robinson: So the for those who haven't seen this before. Some people call it the innovators curve or the diffusion of innovation, or the curve of adoption. This is how people adopt a new technology. So there are many different
Lilliana Robinson: things that people call it. But it's always the same segments. So we have innovators and then early adopters. Then we have the chasm. If everyone's ever heard the book crossing the chasm, it's referencing this.
Lilliana Robinson: Then we have the early majority, late majority and laggards. So I always start off by saying the laggards we wanna just basically pretend don't exist. That's for people like Google who are now getting the 80 year old people in the Nursing Home to use Google. So that's like the last bit of the market that people will ever be able to capture.
Lilliana Robinson: What we want to focus on
Lilliana Robinson: is not just the innovators, but
Lilliana Robinson: the very, very, very small original block of the innovators. And if I was on in person on the board I would point out literally just the black line that that arrow is pointing at. So not even the light blue block, just the little black line, the point 0 0 1% of innovators. That is what we want to start with.
Lilliana Robinson: Because if we start with those adopters, and we get spot on. It's very easy to expand those concentric circles out and just make that market bigger and bigger. And I have some examples later that I'll talk about.
Lilliana Robinson: So the goal is that with a hundred percent confidence, you could sell to every person that you put in that W. One.
Lilliana Robinson: The important note here is that I said, every single person in this criteria that you talk to in a sales context would result in a sale, so I don't want to conflate that with jobs to be done. So when you're doing your customer discovery, you're not trying to sell them.
Lilliana Robinson: But the idea is that once you do your customer discovery, your screening criteria is who you're going to talk to, to get those insights, and through those insights you will validate your and that W. One segment which may or may not overlap with your screening criteria your segment. If you go and talk to each of them in a sales context, would a hundred percent result in a sale? Because you just know that their situation is exactly right to have your product to come and help them make progress in their life.
Lilliana Robinson: Does that make sense? Does anybody have any questions there? Because that's a really important distinction.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay.
Lilliana Robinson: so
Jeremy Banning: in the in the diffusion diffusion of innovation curve you said the focus really should be, is it between the early adopters and the those first 2 blocks? Right? No, it should be. So. We're focusing on the innovators that 2. Nobody here is past the innovators stage.
Lilliana Robinson: We know each of your companies. A lot of us think that we're way further. That's good news, though, cause that means you have huge markets to capture. But we're all in the innovator stage, and we're not even in the 2.5 of your total market that you could get. We're focusing. And if you are trying to capture that right now, I'm asking you to narrow it so that you can be more accurate. You're not going to be able to scale as much if you don't have this
Lilliana Robinson: extreme accuracy. So we're not even focusing on the 2.5%. We're focusing on less than 1%. So we're at the very, very beginning of the curve. That's why I say, like, even just like the left hand black line of the innovators block
Lilliana Robinson: that 2.5. We're focusing on like point 0 0 one very small with extreme accuracy and specificity. And then we'll expand out very quickly.
Jeremy Banning: Good question, Jeremy. Brian.
Brian Simiyu: I'm just wondering I'm just trying to make sure that I've come up to this. Is it safe to then say that? We're trying to get a monopoly in a very small market.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, I like that. Yeah, in a very, very small. And you can be the winner in that, even if there's a competitor like, you know this is where you can start and get that niche, and then you can expand outward and jobs to be done is to help you validate that Alexander a little bit
Lilliana Robinson: good question, Kevin.
Kevin: Yeah. Hi, Iliana. So the
Kevin: we're like, if you were to give an example of this for instance, like we've narrowed ours down to, let's say, the fine dining industry with fine dining restaurants. How could we? Even? What would be an example? We could get that even further, it'd be like a specific like type of
Lilliana Robinson: fine dining restaurant like how? Cause? That's that's a small niche in the market. But it still is probably higher than that point 0 0 one. That's way higher. So you're thinking a lot about attributes which is part of this. But what about circumstance so like, what? What is that fine dining restaurant going through to like, even have the problem? In the first place, what is specific about the struggle that they're going through that, you know. You can help them make progress.
Kevin: You can. Do you want to spitball a, a, an answer, or
Kevin: we can call back to you after we have everyone. Another frame. Yeah. Another frame of of reference for this, as you all have used and probably know, is bottom up as opposed to top down
Neal Sáles-Griffin: a lot of thoughts I hear from how people are thinking of screening things is, you think, from the top big market, and you work your way down to something narrow. start with one person.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: What are they going through? What's their deal? Describe them, and then go. Okay, is there another person like this? Maybe maybe not. I don't know. But at least you know that one person type a specific circumstance.
Lilliana Robinson: Yes.
Lilliana Robinson: so. or were we
Lilliana Robinson: right here? So once you know your who intimately, you can identify every attribute of what makes that? Who a perfect customer. So once you've validated your theory of your who this is, how you expand. You'll have that really narrow one. You're gonna validate it through customer discovery. And then you can make a list of attributes and situations that this narrow segment is in. And you can. The book explains how you can test each of those attributes for that 1, 5, 10 people
Lilliana Robinson: and expand your base outward with a high success rate. So if you decide, it's fine dining restaurants who are in this very specific circumstance, maybe it's also fast casual restaurants who are in this very specific circumstance. Maybe it's something different about the circumstance that makes them a prime customer, but when you can pinpoint that. Then you can start expanding outward into bigger and bigger markets. Does that make sense
Lilliana Robinson: cool? So most people wonder at this point, like, yeah, no problem. Most people wonder at this point. What's the difference between this and Jtb.
Lilliana Robinson: while they're both related to starting with that narrow group of customers. W. 3 is a theory about your business. And then Jtb, DI call the tool to verify that. So we're making these theories. Then we've chosen our screening criteria to go out and validate it, and part of the learning questions in your head should be, is my theory for what my initial customer segment
Lilliana Robinson: is correct. and you can validate that through these interviews that you are doing.
Lilliana Robinson: and if you do it well, something magical happens. So if you can identify your W. One properly, it will directly inform your product roadmap and your financial model in a very predictable way. So again, we're after that predictability. You are sure that you know, like.
Lilliana Robinson: I will pull this lever, and a hundred percent of these people will buy. You can that can inform your financial model and a product roadmap. Because now you know who you're selling to, what their situation exactly is, and you don't have to guess. So you can start building for those people and make even more sales.
Lilliana Robinson: Here's my first example. Bloomfilter is a company from our summer 2022 class in Chicago, and they're a software engineering management. Platform. Think Jira and they thought when they came in and they were sitting in this workshop, they thought that they were selling to Ctos of medium to large corporations.
Lilliana Robinson: So through understanding W. 3, they actually realized, and then, after validating it with jumps to be them, they discovered that their W. One back in 2022 was actually chief innovation officers of companies with 50 to 200 employees who had recently
Lilliana Robinson: experienced a slowdown in software engineering due to like an error in organization, so either they missed a bug or like a project didn't get off its feet. They had a list of dilemmas but one. They were talking to the wrong person, which I'll get into later 2. They had a different size of company. They actually needed to scale much smaller and 3. It was that circumstance. So when they realized that they could target people who had recently had this issue, their sales skyrocketed.
Lilliana Robinson: So they started targeting a different audience. After this
Lilliana Robinson: another side note for 2 sided marketplaces, which I know we have a a couple of 2 sided marketplaces have 2. Who's 2 w ones. So first focus on the one that gives you money, and then you can go back later and do this exercise with your team to do the other half.
Lilliana Robinson: So. David, I will take your question while everyone else starts writing their who. So go ahead and take 3 min. Define your who as narrowly and specifically as possible. Write down all the known attributes you believe are in your who, so that you can go test them. So known attributes, scenarios that they're in circumstances that they've had.
Lilliana Robinson: David, how can I help?
David Akinyemi (he/him): Maybe this exercise might be the answer to my question, but it was like, I really like how
David Akinyemi (he/him): you went from those ctos to like
David Akinyemi (he/him): it was almost like, you know, exactly who you're looking for. I was hoping you would share more about that process. But I think the 6 exercises.
Lilliana Robinson: Well, if you wanna know about Bloom filter. Specifically, they made that hypothesis, and they were selling to Ctos, and they knew it wasn't working. So they actually made a hypothesis in this workshop. Maybe it's cios, and they only change that. So then they had to validate that in jobs they started to talk into Cios, and through that they heard someone say something about like, You know, if this is at my last company. I would need it, or something like that I can't remember. Maybe Neil can remember. But there was a statement made.
Lilliana Robinson: and that gave them the hint. Maybe we need to skew smaller. So then they started talking to CIOS. At smaller companies. And then they realized that there were companies who had these dilemmas happening, and those people were the ones that had this like burning problem. And so it was a lot of iteration and validation through talking to actual customers based on a hypothesis that they make like right now.
Lilliana Robinson: does that make sense?
David Akinyemi (he/him): Yeah, thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, a little less than 2 min left.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, I'm gonna pick on Kevin since we said we would circle back. Did you come up with oh, is he still here? We'll give them a second.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay. In the meantime, does anybody want to share their W. One.
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): Okay, if nobody else does. Yeah. Go ahead. Mutex.
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): Sure. So okay, narrow it down. Professional musicians who are trying to make more money from music. So that they can focus more on their art and worry less about survival. They typically play a lot of gigs, but they don't make a lot of money from them. They are either buskers or gig musicians or diy concert organizers that you know work with a small band.
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): They typically don't have merch, but they thought about getting it and never took the step. And they want to level up their career, but usually don't have a manager representative yet at the major label, or anything like that
Lilliana Robinson: that was extremely specific. I really like that. The in the very beginning there was something that could be more specific. Can you read the first few lines again? Just the beginning. Oh, yeah, the first one. Actually the first one was reused from the first time from the first time that I tried musicians who are trying to make more money from music so they can focus more on their heart and worry less about survival.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So trying to make more money for the music, it's like, I was originally gonna say, what does that mean? But I see that you expanded upon it. Cause you explained, they're either busking. They're doing like they don't have a manager. So those things are extremely specific. Do you see how they're also circumstantial? They're also like about a set of scenarios that the person is in, so that person could be like
Lilliana Robinson: any gender they could be from anywhere that could be any age, that it's not demographic, and that will help you so much. So I really liked that example. That was a really good job.
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): Yay, thank you.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, so we'll move forward, and I'll pick more examples for the next 2. But let's talk about W. 2. What do I believe my customer is buying from me?
Lilliana Robinson: So I heard someone at the beginning who had read this before saying, like the difference between what they are buying versus what they are selling. This is a very important distinction. The customer actually doesn't care what you're selling.
Lilliana Robinson: They care what you do for them.
Lilliana Robinson: So the difference here is actually the job, which is exactly what Neil and I talked to you about last week. So you're gonna lead with how the product impacts their life from their eyes. Not what you believe you're selling.
Lilliana Robinson: So this is the same thing as the quarter inch drill versus the quarter inch hole in the wall, which is exactly what we said. My favorite example of this is, when you go to get a haircut.
Lilliana Robinson: The person is selling a haircut. If you ask any hair stylus, what they sell is cutting your hair, you know you get shorter hair. Maybe you can do a different hairdo. But
Lilliana Robinson: what are you buying like you? Personally, I'm asking you guys, what are each of you buying when you go to get a haircut
Lilliana Robinson: I haven't in. I have an answer for what is the most common, but everyone has their own. So what are you buying when you go get your haircut, Malcolm.
Malc - Xsauce: you buying that that confidence, that crispy look? Yeah, you head into the weekend none better than Friday evening. Haircut. Are you ready. Yeah, that's exactly right. Confidence all the way, Nelson, what are you buying?
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah, exactly exactly what he said. I always get my hair cut like before a big event or an important something like I could look like a shaggy dog, you know, working from home. But I know when I go out, and I have to present myself along with my best
Bob Van Dell: convenience for everyone but me, but
Bob Van Dell: I shaved my head myself, and that's convenient. But back when I didn't.
Bob Van Dell: I didn't have what to take, or the tools, or the know how.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's true.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's another thing. We're buying with most services. Right? You're buying convenience, because, like a lot of them, we could spend a long time learning, but not everyone wants to invest that time. Marcel.
Marisel Polanco: Change
Marisel Polanco: looking to
Marisel Polanco: looking for a change
Lilliana Robinson: in just adding, I've heard a lot of that. A lot of people get breakup haircuts, you know. Gotta change your life.
Lilliana Robinson: Jayla.
Jennifer Loh: also just feeling pampered like getting a blow out and really feeling like it's the service
Neal Sáles-Griffin: on that a bit more. What do you mean by that? Pampered toward it. To what end? To what extent?
Jennifer Loh: Yeah, like, Alex, it's all care. It's like you go to get your hair cut, but it's like getting your hair washed and the feeling of having someone wash your hair and like, really like pampering you. It's a certain it's like the feeling of
Jennifer Loh: being
Neal Sáles-Griffin: yeah self care. I guess I want to dig a little deeper there, because I'm not. I'm not convinced that it's it's at that level like that. What you're describing is what you're getting. But what are you seeking through that?
Jennifer Loh: Like a feeling of relaxation.
Jennifer Loh: Hmm! It's almost like cause getting a haircut is almost like getting a massage, you know, like you, it's like a a break from reality. It's like having someone.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: It doesn't come out of nowhere, though, like what are the causal influences to like seeking that out.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Do you just decide one day like, I just need to get pampered. I just need that or the things going on in your life that would trigger you wanting to do something.
Jennifer Loh: Yeah.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Think through. You gotta think through the other level you can't just go. It's this feeling that I want. It's why do you want the feeling? And you keep unpacking those layers? Maybe something was going on in your life where you decided that you wanted to treat yourself.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: But what will that? What is that thing going on?
Lilliana Robinson: That's what we need to all start thinking more about.
Jennifer Loh: Exactly. I love it.
Lilliana Robinson: So Jeremy, Dan and Antonio go ahead and throw what you're buying in the chat because I'm watching the times we're gonna have to move forward. But
Lilliana Robinson: those were great. So my favorite thing is confidence. So like, that's that's what I had heard the most times when I asked. And that's personally what I like to go and get a haircut form. But basically, if you are a hairstylist, you're not marketing that confidence. If you don't know this kind of thing. So that's a really simple example of what we're trying to get at. The also isn't always concrete. And sometimes it's more than one thing. So that's kind of what J. Lo was saying and what Neil was trying to get at.
Lilliana Robinson: It's not always concrete. It's not always just a one word like this is what I'm buying, sometimes more nebulous, and you have to try and like pinpoint that because humans are very fickle and hard to describe, very complex.
Lilliana Robinson: And sometimes it's more than one thing, meaning that
Lilliana Robinson: you could have 2 groups of people that you know have 2 different W. Two's, and maybe they're related. Maybe they're not. Maybe one person is buying it for 2 different reasons. That's actually what we call in jobs to be done, a small hire and a big hire. So there's always one reason that trumps the other.
Lilliana Robinson: Also your W. 2 can help inform your W. One. So if you're who is right, you'll have data that shows your who cares about your what? But if you're facing problems, figuring out your what you should probably go back to your. So everything builds on each other. So if you're building it on an unstable foundation, you're gonna sense problems as we start moving up, and you can always go back and readdress the bottom layers. So with that, let's take 3 min.
Lilliana Robinson: Write about your what?
Lilliana Robinson: Think about your what in context of what you do for your customer, not just what you do, but what you do for them. Write down a few theories of what you believe. Your W. 2 is what you believe your customer is going to buy or is buying from you and lead with how the product is going to impact your customers lives rather than any amazing features you've built that you would like to sell to them.
Lilliana Robinson: So it's a lot more empathizing and taking a step back from how much we love, what we're building and believe in it, and put yourself in the context of them.
Lilliana Robinson: Jeremy, do you have a question.
Jeremy Banning: you know. Sorry II left my hand raised.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay, 3 min
Lilliana Robinson: given through your product. For example@business.com. Amos gives a great example. He used to be involved with business.com, and
Lilliana Robinson: they are doing lead Gen. Selling insights into competitors products. This is in like 2,000.
Lilliana Robinson: They measure, or their their why is that they want to collect insights into competitors products to get additional revenue.
Lilliana Robinson: They measure that value as additional revenue brought in by each of the leads when they convert to sales. So just knowing that the person is buying insights to the competitors products, and that would they want those to be revenue doesn't matter as much as knowing exactly how they measure it. So for B. Twob, it's really it's really straightforward. If it's revenue that they want, how are they measuring that revenue so like this is not com, was specifically measuring.
Lilliana Robinson: Their customers were specifically measuring business. Dot Com's value that they were providing to their company as the additional revenue that was brought in by each of the leads from the software platform as they converted to sales, so they were able to tweak their product to do those things to them.
Lilliana Robinson: increase the amount of people that would see value from it. So it's a B 2 B example. It's a little more nebulous. But
Lilliana Robinson: you can see how, if you don't show the customer that the value they want is something that your product can provide to their life. It means nothing to them.
Lilliana Robinson: This is something that a lot of people don't understand exactly, because they may see their customer as less intelligent or less aware.
Lilliana Robinson: But it's usually a problem on our end that we're not demonstrating the value in the way that the customer measures it, because they're never going to change the way that they measure or seek to see that value.
Lilliana Robinson: Another example could be
Lilliana Robinson: a workout app, or something that you're signing up for for fitness. If your fitness goals are different than the things that that app is willing to give you. For example, if you sign up and it's a weight loss app. But you're interested in being toned and gaining muscle.
Lilliana Robinson: even if they're helping you quote unquote, get more healthy. It's not in the way that you are interested. You're not showing that I'm fit in the in the way that I measure value. You have to meet me where I'm at. If I'm gonna be a customer
Lilliana Robinson: for B to B. There are 2 wise. This is huge. There's the business as a whole, and there's the decision maker as a person
Lilliana Robinson: which is a lot more emotional social business as a whole, a lot more functional.
Lilliana Robinson: The second one is very important at the start.
Lilliana Robinson: If you can figure out how the decision maker as an actual human being measures the value you're bringing them. Then you can know their motivation and why they're saying yes to buying your product or service.
Lilliana Robinson: For example, back to business.com if the company measures value. So the business as a whole from your lead Gen. Software by the extra revenue it brings in. But the individual decision maker say the VP. Of sales.
Lilliana Robinson: If the individual decision maker has no incentive to surpass their individual revenue goals on a quarterly basis that they already consistently meet without your product. Then there's no motivation.
Lilliana Robinson: So this actually happened to business.com. They realized they needed to go back and adjust their W. One from selling to Vp. Of sales to selling to Vp. Of sales who have an incentive program to surpass revenue goals to not only meet them, but to increase. So basically getting commission off of all of the extra revenue that they bring in based on the legit, that is how they found their niche because it was people who wanted to go above and beyond, and who were directly incentivized.
Lilliana Robinson: A lot of people passed up on their software because they said, we already hit it. We and I don't need to make any more, even though the business as a whole really wants to make extra revenue. So that's kind of that's how you can see the difference between the person and the business. People are a lot more self involved. They really only wanna do what they're directly incentivized to do, even if it's a no brainer for the business as a whole. And that's just a hard reality. Not everybody
Lilliana Robinson: worked in the
Lilliana Robinson: in the same vein as just thinking about the business's future. We're all humans at art. So it's not even a bad thing to think about your customers. Matthew.
Matthieu Bonnard: Sorry me again, yeah, this is super important for B, twob, and not to challenge that statement, but just wondering about data to support.
Matthieu Bonnard: that that the decision maker, as a person is
Matthieu Bonnard: as equally important as the business as a whole.
Lilliana Robinson: Only at this stage, and the the data behind. That is just if, like, just like Bloomfilter, if you're selling to the wrong decision maker, and you're not getting their Y. So you're they're selling to the wrong ones. So your W. One is wrong, or your W. 2 or 3 are wrong where you're not selling them the correct thing, or in the way that they measure their value. You're just gonna get a no. The hardest thing with B Twob is just getting in there. So that's why we say, when we're at this small
Lilliana Robinson: stage of company. The second one is the most important we're selling to a person we're selling to one decision maker. If you can't get past that decision maker. You're never gonna get in. So I've seen so many of my companies that are B 2 B just have these very long drawn out sales cycles that always end in. No, because they're just not getting that foot in the door. If you can capture that decision, maker, and they can be your champion.
Lilliana Robinson: Of course, your product aligns with the value that you can bring to the business. It's a lot more. A lot of people get hung up on. I'm trying to sell it to the business. I'm gonna make them more money. Why do they keep saying? No.
Lilliana Robinson: that's why I like that business dotcom example. Of course it's a no brainer for for a Company X to hire business.com to give them lead. Gen. If they've shown consistently that it can bring in more revenue.
Lilliana Robinson: But the reason is, the problem is, when we have a startup, when businesscom was very small. they're selling to a person they're having to demonstrate to a single human being that they can provide that value, and that it's meaningful to them.
Lilliana Robinson: A lot of these execs do not operate only in the context of the business. I think it's hard to understand as an entrepreneur, because the CEO is the business right, like you live and breathe the business, and it almost seems synonymous. But in these, when we're doing enterprise and we're selling to medium to large businesses, it's a lot more disconnected.
Lilliana Robinson: So that's why we have to think about the people as people. They're not extremely connected, emotionally, or even just like incentively with
Lilliana Robinson: the business's goals. They have their own personal goals. Their goals are usually to move up to get recognition within the company. To get be personally, financially incentivized as a bonus or something like that. They have their own personal goals. So just saying that we're going to bring the company more money is not enough, because there's usually a hassle. They have to go through to onboard to champion your business, to get it okayed with the with the higher ups, and they're not willing to do that. If there's not a personal goal.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: this becomes, yeah, this becomes more real in practice than on paper or conceptually. Once you start actively selling to businesses. You start to very quickly realize the human elements that are at play when it comes to different like decision makers and stakeholders throughout the hierarchy that you have to navigate.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: So that's that's the journey that we're all gonna go on together, for some of you is like getting in there and actually trying to actively sell
Neal Sáles-Griffin: like there's a variety of circumstances that have human interest elements to it. Even in the B 2 B stage.
Lilliana Robinson: I think the people that understand that upfront are the most successful because a lot of people just treat businesses as businesses and not people
Lilliana Robinson: Kristy.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: So in in, I know we're experiencing this right now. With enterprise sales.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: do, are we gonna cover like stakeholder mapping? Because it it may not just be the decision maker. It could be an influencer. There could be someone else that we need to also understand.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: Their why and how we can fulfill that.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah, Neil, did you? Wanna answered Betsey, called her mapping.
Neal Sáles-Griffin: Sorry II missed that one.
Christy Serrato | PairAnything: I get this part, but I know with enterprise, especially with large large enterprises. There's this concept of stakeholder mapping, because it may not just be the decision maker, but leading up to decision makers, influencer. will you help us kind of navigate that. Or are we just gonna
Neal Sáles-Griffin: of course. Yeah, I mean, we're that's like this whole program. All we're trying to do is help you all figure out the best place to sell and grow so stakeholder mapping is totally far for the course. We'll we'll call it different fancier things, I guess. And then on top of that, the eirs they're gonna be super hands on every week with you on top of myself. So yeah, we got you.
Lilliana Robinson: San Antonio.
Antonio Forenza - AWEAR, Med: So would this apply also to B, 2 B, 2 C, right, because we are B, 2 B, 2 C, and so the customers pay for the service. But ultimately we need to convince also business to say, we're gonna increase your custom. The number of customers you're gonna have because our service is cheaper, it's easier to use.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So I would say, you can split that in your mind into 2. So you have the B 2 B and the B to C, and so for the B Twob, where you're even though they're not your customers, you're still needing a yes from them. This would apply, and then the rest is the Y from the customer. So you have 2 as well, almost like a 2 sided marketplace. I would treat it like that, and you have to go through and do W. 3 for both. And this would be true for the businesses that you need that. Okay from.
Lilliana Robinson: So you need to feel free to adjust your W. One and 2, as you think about your W. 3. So just like Bloom filter had to
Lilliana Robinson: go back and adjust their W. One, and just like business com, had to adjust what they were selling, and exactly to who
Lilliana Robinson: they had to change the situation in their W. One. As you're thinking about your W. 3, all 3 theories need to be in alignment. So if you're finding trouble definitely, go back and revisit the first 2 that you wrote, and also remember that you need to go out and test these. So
Lilliana Robinson: everything that you have on your paper after today or on your note stock. Those are all speculation. I just can't hammer that home enough. Do not think that just because we wrote it, and maybe you have a lot of confidence and conviction in what you have written. It's still really important to talk to the customers, to validate the assumptions that we're making today.
Lilliana Robinson: So let's take 3 min.
Lilliana Robinson: Write down your theory on the why question how you believe your customers will measure them, and how you can assure you, have the right tools to measure it on your end.
Lilliana Robinson: Okay? Something. I wanna highlight here before we share is that there's a key line here, which is, how can you ensure you have the tools to measure it?
Lilliana Robinson: Why is that important?
Lilliana Robinson: Think back, if you've ever received an email from maybe something you signed up for where they before you even wonder or think about cancelling. They consistently report back to you at either how much money they're saving you, how much they've done for you giving you these reports. It could be a rewards program that you signed up for or like credit card. And they tell you like. You've earned X
Lilliana Robinson: in rewards this month, or maybe you signed up for something a service so that they could do something for you, and they've helped you with X number of things this month or this year.
Lilliana Robinson: basically giving you this report of how they know you measured value. And they want to demonstrate that value before you even question if they're giving it to you, understanding how
Lilliana Robinson: you, as their customer measures value, and then being able to report it back to you is so strong because it basically mitigates any sort of doubt in their mind, and they will never turn. That's why it's so
Lilliana Robinson: powerful to be able to have the right tools to measure value in the way your customer sees it.
Lilliana Robinson: and you can just show them like basecamp is a good example, they'll maybe show you. Oh, you've completed X. Projects like these are all the projects projects you've gotten done, and it's all listed in the archive. You feel really accomplished, and it feels amazing. And you're happy that you had basecamp to do it.
Lilliana Robinson: Does anyone want to share the W. 3 that they wrote down. We have time for maybe 2
Lilliana Robinson: 2 examples
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): always upfront. If nobody is. please go ahead and reach us.
Okay, cool?
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): So why?
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): Because they can see that the amount of work they put into their music careers does not reflect properly in their earnings. So it's not proportional
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): they will measure Security's effectiveness in the amount of money they make out of it, and also in the way that other artists and fans feel about them. Example, do they think that the band is more legit because they have a store in merch.
Mircea Gogoncea (Cicada): and we can measure it by building a really good dashboard. That shows how much money they made, how many new followers they got, and all the other benefits exactly what you were saying. I wrote that down like 10 s before you started saying that
Lilliana Robinson: I think that's really cool. So that is a great example of how this W. 3 exercise can directly inform your product roadmap. So I wouldn't go and invest time and money into building that until you've validated that by talking to customers. Cause. That's completely a theory right now. But if you validate that that is something that has helped people move the needle in the past. Or that's the problem. They really have
Lilliana Robinson: building that out in your product roadmap can help you increase sales so much, because now you know exactly their circumstance and the value that they want, not only will it increase sales that'll decrease churn. So once you get those customers, you're demonstrating that value, and they won't stay. I really like that. That's a great idea on how to demonstrate the value from their eyes. You might not have thought that like showing that they're legit means anything that's not really what you were selling for. So I really like that? Mitch Nelson?
Nelson Mitchell: Yeah, the I've definitely been
Nelson Mitchell: thinking for the W. 3 that you know, this is
Nelson Mitchell: this is a problem that people are trying to solve and so solving it as a 0 to one. But quantifying how solving the problem is, saving them time or money, or whatever is is an interesting thing to reflect back to people. So I think the stats are good. But
Nelson Mitchell: the idea of the rewards program really resonates with me, because I think that people are much
Nelson Mitchell: more likely to value something that is, feels like a positive to them than they are to like value the opportunity cost like. Oh, II save this much by, you know, avoiding you know this, this penalty, or something. I'd I'd rather everybody would rather take the reward. And so this is something that I was
Nelson Mitchell: batting around with. With some folks I was talking to, and I think it it just popped popped up the feature list as as being a great way to reinforce good behavior engagement.
Lilliana Robinson: Yeah. So another product roadmap that's being informed by this, I like that so much. So you can go, and you can validate that. You can talk to people who have hired similar products and see how that has changed their life, how they feel about it, or products that don't have that, and see why they fired them. And that's a good way to validate. If that's something that you should invest your time into building out.
Lilliana Robinson: I like that a lot. Thanks for everyone who has volunteered. We'll just close out, and then I'll stick around to answer all the questions in the chat.
Lilliana Robinson: So
Lilliana Robinson: now that you have your W. 3, how can you go test it again? Broken record here jobs to be done, which is what we're currently doing. So that's why I moved up this workshop to today so that you guys could have all this knowledge in your head as you're going through this first set of work of interviews. So basically, we want you guys to go and do your interviews as soon as you have that screening criteria down, pat with Kate.
Lilliana Robinson: and then on Friday of week one, we're gonna have. You guys do a check point presentation kind of saying how many you've done so far, and what you've learned.
Lilliana Robinson: Let's go through the jobs we done statement again. If you remember it's in the form when I so I want to, so that I
Lilliana Robinson: I've taken the liberty to put the W. 3 on top of this, because it really melds perfectly. It's when I which is the who or the situation, and attributes the circumstance that the who is in
Lilliana Robinson: I want to? What are they buying? What are they hiring? What is the desire? So that I and that's why that's the outcome. That's the value. And then, on top of that you know in the back of your mind how they measure that value. But from the customer's perspective you can write those jobs to be done. Statements
Lilliana Robinson: with the W. 3 in mind. And that's kind of how the 2 blend together. So that's just something that we've come up with here in our programs. But I think it works perfectly. So.
Lilliana Robinson: Thank you guys, this was awesome super fun. And I really appreciate everyone for all your participation. I'll stick around for questions. But we'll see you tomorrow.
Lilliana Robinson: Bye.